Matthew dille: Hello.
Kyle Smith: Hello, Matthew.
Kyle Smith: User HOW ARE YOU, DR here.
Matthew dille: Which region.
Kyle Smith: You to where are you calling me from
Matthew dille: I'm at work right now I'm in my car.
Kyle Smith: Okay. And where are you working
Matthew dille: Acne block and break
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Matthew dille: In cross little jersey.
Kyle Smith: Gotcha. Give me one second. Matthew, I'm getting my audio here.
Okay.
Matthew dille: Hello ladies normally take
Kyle Smith: That first meeting usually takes about 45 minutes
Okay.
Kyle Smith: That is, is that work for you.
Matthew dille: Yeah, it'd be okay. I guess I'm just, I asked me to cover from it works. I can go out and take this call.
Kyle Smith: I got you work it does
Matthew dille: Work. It's every block and brick. We make concrete blocks and bricks.
Kyle Smith: Okay, how long you been working there.
Matthew dille: A little about a year and a half.
Okay.
Kyle Smith: All right, Matthew well
Kyle Smith: It's nice to meet you. Again, my name is Dr. Smith. I'm
Kyle Smith: Primarily work as an anesthesiologist but been doing addiction medicine for about five or six years now.
Kyle Smith: And I
Kyle Smith: I believe in the process. And I'm happy to see today. Let me just confirm the to see some demographic stuff. So you are Matthew do
Kyle Smith: Nine delay okay 930 1983
Kyle Smith: Years. Okay. All right. Matthew. WELL, I'M JUST GIVE ME A Brief History Matthew, tell me.
Kyle Smith: Tell me why you are seeking help with bright heart health.
Well,
Matthew dille: I had tried in the past, but I never really had enough money to try to get help with it. And in the past, whenever I've stopped doing opiates, it's because I went to jail or prison.
Matthew dille: Able to stop then obviously, because you don't have much choice, but it's I've never been able to accomplish it on the streets.
Matthew dille: Stopping because I've never had to help you know Suboxone or anything like that. No time I've ever got to take some boxes, you know, buying it off the streets, obviously, and trying to trying to do it that way, but it never works because you always run out.
Matthew dille: You know me, I'm not. I'm
Matthew dille: Not on set set, you know, you don't have it whenever you can always get it on the streets, you know, but I just think that and I've got a family and stuff. I'm trying to not lose everything right. The second I'm getting pretty close to losing everything and
Matthew dille: I know that this is the only way that I'm going to be able to get it back together as if I can try to seek help this way and and
Matthew dille: You know,
Matthew dille: Save. Everything is just right at the last, the last second right now if I don't do something right. The second, I'm going to lose everything so
Kyle Smith: Matthew, tell me you give me a brief drug history. When did you start using drugs. What were you using
Matthew dille: Um, well I I smoke pot. When I was younger, in my teens and then
Matthew dille: I've dabbled with a little bit of this and that just not much not really getting hooked. And then here about 810 years ago I got
Matthew dille: Moved up here and got kind of hooked on pills never really been into him before. And then I got hooked on them and they're just a hard thing to kick, especially if you don't have any
Matthew dille: You know that you can. It's just really hard to just stop doing, um, you know, you can have it set your head, don't you, but it's really hard to just quit doing, you know,
Kyle Smith: Cold turkey, so to speak. Yeah, okay, what pills are you taking
Matthew dille: Open is
Kyle Smith: Okay, what do you remember what dosage and how much
Kyle Smith: When I when you were using the most
Matthew dille: Well i one point in time, a long time ago I I could do. It's hard to believe, but probably 640 hours in a day.
Matthew dille: Okay 640 milligrams
Kyle Smith: 20 milligrams. Okay.
Matthew dille: Not that point right now, but I'm have been that bad.
Kyle Smith: And so was it just kind of a progression from marijuana and other drugs to the to the opiates, or did you have surgery where you were prescribed some opiates or anything like that.
Matthew dille: But I did have some teams work done and kind of got that's probably where the ball started rolling
Matthew dille: Okay then teeth and I just kind of moved on from like hydrocodone Parker sets.
Matthew dille: Up.
Matthew dille: Okay, seem to be the thing everybody was doing at the time I'd never really been into it and I just kind of just snowball effect. And next thing you know your pill sick and you're, you know, you're figuring out what what withdrawals are horrible.
Kyle Smith: Sure. When was your last opiate use
Matthew dille: This morning
Kyle Smith: Yeah. Would you would you take this morning.
Matthew dille: Open 20
Kyle Smith: Okay. All right. Have you taken Suboxone before we take it up before
Matthew dille: Yeah, taking it on the streets. I've gotten a couple strips from somebody, and I was able to quit for a couple of days.
Kyle Smith: To get rid of the withdrawals.
Kyle Smith: Right, okay.
Matthew dille: And, you know, after I ran out. I just went right back to the to the pills, because you know you don't have
Matthew dille: A supply of, you know, if I had a constant splash box and I could stop noon, you know and feel good and be in and be able to save everything but right now I'm, I'm really hoping that you can help me.
Kyle Smith: Yes, sir. I think we can't
Kyle Smith: This
Kyle Smith: This treatment plan that that I've developed in that bright heart health has in place. I think
Kyle Smith: yield some pretty good results and we'll get into all that here at the end.
Kyle Smith: Of our talk. But I want to get through this. This first meeting is kind of you, you and I get to know each other and then
Kyle Smith: Me good
Matthew dille: Work. I took off yesterday because I thought maybe I'd be able to get in with you guys and maybe get done yesterday.
Kyle Smith: We'll get
Kyle Smith: We'll get through it and
Kyle Smith: We'll get through it and our subsequent meetings will will go a little bit quicker for sure. And this is just to kind of lay the groundwork and make sure we get all the information
Kyle Smith: So I took some a panel today, taking Suboxone before. Have you ever been a treatment before
Matthew dille: intensive outpatient I went through.
Matthew dille: I wanted to five months that I graduated, it is intense about Beijing. But I'd come out of jail and just had a baby and
Matthew dille: DCS was involved. And I went through all that and I did everything to get my kid back and I got my kids back, everything's good there.
Matthew dille: And I was on probation. I'm not on probation anymore. I got that taken care of. So I've been doing things in the right direction. And that's probably why I'm on the phone with you because in the past. I never would have tried to seek out, but it just, you know,
Matthew dille: Share didn't. You didn't tell trouble again or something so
Kyle Smith: I'm sorry, what's happened recently Matthew that that you know you you said that you're afraid of losing everything. What's prompted you to come. Seek help right now.
Matthew dille: Well, I just
Matthew dille: spent money to the point where I'm getting ready to start having no utilities and not paying bills, you know, not have money to support my family and it's it's getting really close to being that bad if it's not already
Kyle Smith: Understand. Okay. All right. Um,
Kyle Smith: Let's see. Tell me this to any other medical problems that you've been diagnosed with the. Do you see a primary care doctor
Kyle Smith: Nurse Practitioner physician assistant
Matthew dille: Booking moans about time I go
Kyle Smith: What's that
Matthew dille: Every time I go to the doctors with I have broken bones are bleeding.
Matthew dille: And generally don't go see a doctor. And let's just serious
Matthew dille: I understand. No.
Kyle Smith: Okay.
Kyle Smith: Have you had any surgery in the past.
Matthew dille: You know,
Kyle Smith: Any allergies to medicine. No are you taking any other medicines at home.
Matthew dille: No. Okay.
Kyle Smith: Ever been diagnosed with any other psychiatric problems schizophrenia, bipolar depression.
Kyle Smith: Okay. Any thoughts. Any thoughts of hurting yourself or anybody else.
Kyle Smith: Know, Matthew. Okay.
Kyle Smith: All right, Matthew, um, any
Kyle Smith: Smoking drinking other drug use.
Matthew dille: I smoke some weed.
Matthew dille: Just to try to I've been trying to do things started to slow down my pills not opening, but I smoked meat and I don't drink I smoke cigarettes.
Okay.
Kyle Smith: And you said you you have children at home, are you, how many kids do. Yeah.
Kyle Smith: Two kids. How old are they
Matthew dille: For four months and your man.
Kyle Smith: Wow. Congratulations. That's a busy house.
Kyle Smith: Are you married
Kyle Smith: No, okay, his mom, not in the picture right now or
Kyle Smith: She does. Okay. All right.
Kyle Smith: Let's see.
Kyle Smith: Any
Kyle Smith: Any you said, No, you said broken bone surgery in the past.
Matthew dille: No no don't
Matthew dille: ever broken
Matthew dille: A broken wrist.
Kyle Smith: And yes it did. Yes, some dental surgery.
Matthew dille: Oh, I just
Matthew dille: didn't cut it out over
Kyle Smith: Okay. Okay. All right. Um, any IV drug use.
Matthew dille: Yeah.
Okay.
Kyle Smith: And was that heroin was that math. What was that
Kyle Smith: What's that
Kyle Smith: Opener. Okay. Okay.
Kyle Smith: And just real quick method this is this is telling medicine. So we have to be creative with the physical exam. Do me a favor and take your glasses off.
Kyle Smith: Okay, take your head off.
Kyle Smith: All right, and cover cover your eyes get close to the screen cover your eyes for three seconds and then
Kyle Smith: take your eyes off. I'm just going to see if I can get a look at your pupils. Yeah, there you go, 123 okay take them off. Okay, very good. And then you can back up now. Now open your mouth real wide.
Kyle Smith: Okay, I mean yeah back up a little bit. I can't really see in there. Okay, good. And then
Kyle Smith: Let's see, what I want you to do. Matthew is a you know how to take your pulse.
Matthew dille: Know,
Kyle Smith: What's your put your finger.
Kyle Smith: On Monday, I got it.
Matthew dille: Yeah. What do you, how many beach do when you retire.
Kyle Smith: Yeah. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to time it for 15 seconds and then
Kyle Smith: We're going to do some multiplication. So go ahead and I want you to. I'll tell you when to start counting
Kyle Smith: Can you feel it.
Kyle Smith: Yeah. Okay. Ready, set, go.
Kyle Smith: Stop.
Kyle Smith: 25 okay so about 100
He breathing. Okay.
Kyle Smith: Yeah.
Kyle Smith: And so what I'm going to do now is I'm just going to kind of ask you. This is what we call a review of systems. Have you had any fever at home. Recently, any night sweats, no any off congestion wheezing.
Kyle Smith: Chest pain, shortness of breath.
Kyle Smith: Any, any rashes on your skin.
Kyle Smith: Any open wounds.
Matthew dille: Work.
Kyle Smith: Okay, any, any muscle pain.
Matthew dille: No.
Matthew dille: If I did, you know, whenever I run into medicine, it kind of
Matthew dille: You know, obviously, you know,
Kyle Smith: Okay, yeah, yeah.
Kyle Smith: And let's see.
Kyle Smith: What else any nausea, vomiting, diarrhea,
Matthew dille: No, not message related to whenever I run out of bills.
Kyle Smith: Okay, but not currently
Kyle Smith: Yeah. Okay. Any runny nose.
Matthew dille: Just wanted to Joey. I've been called back last couple days.
Kyle Smith: Okay, um, any difficulty hearing ringing in your ears.
New
Kyle Smith: Vision changes blurry vision.
Matthew dille: Okay.
Kyle Smith: Okay, any
Kyle Smith: Headaches lightheadedness,
Kyle Smith: Very good.
Kyle Smith: Have you been in the hospital recently.
Kyle Smith: Matthew has has bright heart sent you a
Kyle Smith: drug screen.
Matthew dille: Okay.
Kyle Smith: And have you had any recent blood work.
Kyle Smith: Any
Kyle Smith: Any benzo use recently.
Kyle Smith: All right, Matthew. Well, I think we got a good kind of medical history there and let me just tell you a little bit about
Kyle Smith: This whole process is called MIT or
Kyle Smith: medication assisted treatment. I think you would benefit from some medication.
Kyle Smith: It sounds like you've had
Kyle Smith: A PRETTY, PRETTY LONG HISTORY OF opiate use
Kyle Smith: And you can meet all the classic signs and symptoms for opioid dependence.
Kyle Smith: Because when you when you stop them. You go into withdrawal between now know is a is a flu like syndrome, you know, headache, runny nose, stomach upset, muscle aches, etc, etc.
Kyle Smith: And you know, I think it's good that that you that you understand that that's a problem. That means that you have something that we call insight into your condition you have kids at home that you want to take care of. And I think that's that's commendable.
Kyle Smith: And so, so what I think I'd like to do is get you get you on some Suboxone
Kyle Smith: And let you sort of initiate this process of medication assisted treatment with us here at bright heart health, generally, what we do is when someone's starting program.
Kyle Smith: From the beginning is I'll see you pretty frequently maybe once a week at the beginning and then as we go along and and we get to know each other, and you're doing well on the medication will space those meetings out
Kyle Smith: In conjunction with the medication that that will will use
Kyle Smith: Bright heart health will help me provide you with some counseling services and of course this is all done via telemedicine to help you talk through some things like
Kyle Smith: How to Prevent relapses how to think about your treatment.
Kyle Smith: How to
Kyle Smith: How to to get through this process and hopefully improve your quality of life, because that's what this whole treatment process is about
Kyle Smith: And, you know, so that you can do the things that you enjoy and take care of your family as far as the medication goes, it sounds like you've taken it before.
Kyle Smith: Suboxone is is what's called a partial opioid agonist, which means that it binds to the same receptors as the OH panna that you're taking
Kyle Smith: But at a lower
Kyle Smith: Has a lower chance of
Kyle Smith: Making you, you know, feel that you for sort of high feeling, but because it's sitting in that same receptor. It's not gonna it's you're not going to go into withdrawal. If you don't have the Japan. Okay.
Right.
Kyle Smith: So,
Kyle Smith: What we'll do initially, it is. I'll do you remember how much you took before when you were buying them.
Matthew dille: Phone call
Matthew dille: No, I don't really call it was before it was
Matthew dille: Going to doctors minute
Matthew dille: I'm taking care of them and
Matthew dille: I spent that I know I'm just
Matthew dille: Sorry.
Kyle Smith: I'm sorry buddy. I'll get you
Kyle Smith: I'll get you fixed. So, so what we're gonna do is
Kyle Smith: I'm gonna have you take
Kyle Smith: I'm going to have you take some films. Some Suboxone films.
Kyle Smith: And what I want you to do is take the first film. What time did you take the pan of this morning.
Matthew dille: Phobos
Kyle Smith: 3530 okay so probably by the time you get off work your prescription should be ready and that'll be about 12 hours or so I want you to wait to take the first knows when you're having some symptoms when you start feeling so withdrawal symptoms.
Kyle Smith: That way that we know that the Japan is leaving your body and that the Suboxone will go in there and start to act pretty quickly. You should feel better within about an hour. You're going to put it, but the the film under your tongue and let it dissolve.
Kyle Smith: It's going to go straight into the bloodstream.
Kyle Smith: And help reduce those withdrawal and cravings that you that you would develop if you didn't have anything. Okay.
Kyle Smith: So you're in
Matthew dille: A much is a prescription and also I only get paid every two weeks. Like I said my lowest second I don't get paid till Friday and it does each doctor visit costs because I won't you know my money's kind of
Kyle Smith: Yeah, Matthew, I would I would direct you to the care coordinator for those questions.
Kyle Smith: Each each visit costs a different amount. I know the initial visit probably cost a little bit more than the subsequent visits.
Kyle Smith: Have you applied for Medicaid or Medicare or any insurance.
Matthew dille: Yeah yeah
Kyle Smith: Okay, that may be something that they're coordinators can help you with in the virtual waiting room or whatever.
Matthew dille: Okay.
Okay.
Kyle Smith: But, and I know there are some coupons out there.
Kyle Smith: When I've done this before. There's
Matthew dille: Hold on just one second. Sure.
Matthew dille: Come on.
Matthew dille: Yeah.
Kyle Smith: There are some. There are some financial relief out there for the for the Suboxone films that I'm sure that care coordinators can help you out with
Matthew dille: Okay, okay.
Kyle Smith: So what so what you'll do is I want you to take one eight milligram film.
Matthew dille: Tonight we're going to
Kyle Smith: Start when you start feeling some withdrawal symptoms when you, you know, runny nose, watery eyes stomachs get
Kyle Smith: A little upset start feeling a little anxious
Matthew dille: Okay, we're
Kyle Smith: And then
Kyle Smith: And then take that one film today.
Kyle Smith: And and then see how you feel. Okay.
Kyle Smith: If before you go to bed tonight you still, you're still feeling anxious sweaty.
Kyle Smith: Still make up
Kyle Smith: Having some cravings. I want you to take you can cut another film in half and take another half of film.
Matthew dille: Tonight. Good.
Kyle Smith: Day for a total of 12 milligrams tonight.
Kyle Smith: And then tomorrow, what I want you to do.
Kyle Smith: When you wake up, is take eight milligrams in the morning.
Matthew dille: Okay.
Kyle Smith: And then
Kyle Smith: See how you're feeling that night. And then if you're still feeling cravings withdrawal symptoms. I want you to do the same thing, cut another film in half and take another four milligrams
Matthew dille: Okay. Okay. All right. Okay.
Kyle Smith: And I want you to do. I want you to do the same. I want you to do that.
Kyle Smith: Each day until I see you again next week. What's a good day for you to meet next week.
Matthew dille: Probably Friday.
Matthew dille: Or Saturday, you're on the weekends.
Kyle Smith: What's that
Matthew dille: You do the meetings weekend.
Kyle Smith: I'm sometimes. Yeah, yeah.
Matthew dille: Saturday afternoon, like a true Q3 again.
Kyle Smith: I'll have to check my schedule, Matthew. I don't have a I don't have an appointment opening for next Saturday afternoon, but let me get with the care coordinators and we'll what we'd like to do with see you within seven days.
Kyle Smith: Of your first meeting.
Kyle Smith: Okay, okay.
Kyle Smith: So would you know, Monday through Thursday at any time, it would be better.
Matthew dille: If you try the third and maybe I can have to
Matthew dille: Okay, because I want me to pay as I go.
Kyle Smith: Okay, let's see what date that would be
Kyle Smith: Less so that would be the 23rd.
Matthew dille: Okay, okay.
Kyle Smith: Let's, let's, let's aim for the 23rd.
Kyle Smith: Morning, or afternoon or evening be better for you.
Matthew dille: Probably evening.
Kyle Smith: Okay, why don't we say Thursday around 5pm
Matthew dille: Okay.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, that'd be great.
Kyle Smith: And I'll get with the care coordinators, if we if we need to change that.
Kyle Smith: Token now here as far as the medication again goes there. There's some rules that we try to follow.
Kyle Smith: When you're taking buprenorphine when you're taking Suboxone I don't want you to drink any alcohol or use any benzodiazepines like Valium Xanax, etc. Okay.
Kyle Smith: Um, it can
Kyle Smith: Have a an additive effect when you take both those together and
Kyle Smith: Just slow your breathing down and you
Kyle Smith: Have a high risk of overdose. Okay.
Kyle Smith: The side effects.
Kyle Smith: From Suboxone
Kyle Smith: The common things
Kyle Smith: Are headache constipation. Okay.
Kyle Smith: Of course, if you have any any weird
Kyle Smith: Alarming symptoms like shortness of breath you break out rash start swell and I want you to call 911. Okay, any other problems with your medication. I want you to, you can call right heart health, call the care coordinators and if it's something that I need to address, they can find me.
Kyle Smith: Okay, who
Matthew dille: Are
Kyle Smith: The care coordinators are going to assign you to a group. Okay. For count for some counseling and they we can we can we have so many different groups, there'll be able to hopefully work around your schedule and your work schedule.
Kyle Smith: I think it's important that you're working and I'm gonna let you go here and just SEC because I know you got to get back
Matthew dille: There.
Kyle Smith: My experience people who do well with this, with this program, Matthew, are people like yourself who have a job and have a purpose. I think working is very important.
Kyle Smith: They have a support system at home, he sounds like you've got kids who you love and who love you, I think that will that will help you as well. Do you have someone else at home that you can talk to
Kyle Smith: Yes. Okay. All right. Um, and then and then some medication. I mean, the overall goal here initially is to prevent you from from going into withdrawal.
Kyle Smith: Okay, right. And the medication that's that's the number one goal of the medication is to reduce cravings and withdrawal. It does that very well over these first couple weeks. Our goal is to just get the dose right
Matthew dille: Okay, right.
Kyle Smith: And and that may take a couple of days. Okay, um,
Kyle Smith: If you have any questions about the medication, you can always call and make it. And again, the care coordinators can find me you have any other questions.
Kyle Smith: I'm not sure.
Kyle Smith: About what
Kyle Smith: What
Kyle Smith: Matthew, tell me what pharmacy. You've been
Matthew dille: Um, well, I
Matthew dille: Told them Walmart and gospel, Tennessee, but
Matthew dille: Okay. I mean, I'm not sure if I do believe it or not. If they don't, I can always call you back. Right.
Kyle Smith: Yes, yes.
Kyle Smith: Okay, um, right now I have right now I have a pharmacy on
Matthew dille: Main Street.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, it's a Walmart.
Matthew dille: Yes, yeah.
You see,
Kyle Smith: Yeah okay and
Kyle Smith: Anything else. Anything else for you.
Matthew dille: I wish we had more time. Maybe we could talk. I mean,
Kyle Smith: We got we got through the
Kyle Smith: Thursday important stuff.
Kyle Smith: And you call us if you if you need anything.
Matthew dille: Okay, thank you. Thank you.
Kyle Smith: All right, we'll talk to you later. Matthew
Kyle Smith: You take care. Okay.
Kyle Smith: Bye bye.
Kyle Smith: Just finished my meeting Matthew do
Kyle Smith: things to note in the
Kyle Smith: In the final transcripts.
Kyle Smith: Are
Kyle Smith: As follows
Kyle Smith: I did.
Kyle Smith: To a
Kyle Smith: Tennessee controlled substance monitoring program review for Mr dill.
Kyle Smith: To get his prescription history report.
Kyle Smith: And that report resulted with no data found
Kyle Smith: Which is consistent with his
Kyle Smith: With my interview and him basically saying that he is not taking any medications.
Kyle Smith: He also needs to complete a drug screen.
Kyle Smith: He said he had not received yet.
Kyle Smith: We also need lab work.
Kyle Smith: CBC BMP liver function panel.
Kyle Smith: Hepatitis panel.
Kyle Smith: Okay, thank you.